when I told my parents I was gay the
first thing they said to me was we're
bringing you back to Taiwan in their
minds my sexual orientation was
America's fault the West had corrupted
me with divergent ideas and if only my
parents had never left Taiwan this would
not have happened to their only daughter
in truth I wondered if they were right
of course there are gay people in Asia
just as their i gay people in every part
of the world but is the idea of living
in out life in B I'm gay this is my
spouse and we're proud of our lives
together kind of way just a Western idea
if I had grown up in Taiwan or any place
outside of the West what I have found
models of happy thriving LGBT people
I had similar notions as an HIV social
worker in San Francisco I met many gay
immigrants they told me their stories of
persecution in their home countries just
for being gay and the reasons why they
escaped the u.s. I saw how this had
beaten them down after ten years of
doing this kind of work I needed better
stories for myself I knew the world was
far from perfect but surely not every
gay story was tragic so as a couple we
both had a need to find stories of hope
so we set off on a mission to travel the
world and look for the people that we
finally termed as the super gays
these would be the LGBT individuals who
are doing something extraordinary in the
world they would be courageous resilient
and most of all proud of who they were
they would be the kind of person that I
aspired to be our plan was to share
their stories to the world through film
there was just one problem
we had zero reporting and zero
filmmaking experience would even know
where to find the super gays so we just
had to trust that we would figure it all
out along the way so I picked 15
countries in Asia Africa and South
America countries outside the West that
varied in terms of LGBT rights
we bought a camcorder ordered a book on
how to make a documentary and you can
learn a lot these days and set off on a
round-the-world trip one of the first
countries that we travel to was Nepal
despite widespread poverty a decade-long
Civil War and now recently a devastating
earthquake Nepal has made significant
strides in the fight for equality one of
the key figures in the movement is
bhoomika
shrestha a beautiful vibrant
transgendered woman bhoomika has had to
overcome being expelled from school and
getting incarcerated because of her
gender presentation but in 2007 bhoomika
and Nepal's LGBT rights organization
successfully petitioned the Nepali
Supreme Court to protect against LGBT
discrimination
here's bhoomika most of the abroad I'm a
jacket of people I'm so proud of my life
so on to the 21st December 2007 its
Supreme Court gave the decision for
Nepal government to give a transgender
identity card and same-sex married I can
appreciate to make us confidence on a
daily basis something as simple as using
a public restroom can be a huge
challenge when you don't fit in to
people's strict gender expectations
traveling throughout Asia I tended to
freak out women in public restrooms they
weren't used to seeing someone like me I
had to come up with the strategy so that
I could just pee in peace
so anytime I would into a restroom I
would thrust out my chest to show my
womanly parts and try to be as
non-threatening as possible putting out
my hands and saying hello just so that
people could hear my feminine voice this
all gets pretty exhausting but it's just
who I am I can't be anything else after
Nepal we travel to India on one hand
India is a Hindu society without a
tradition of homophobia on the other
hand it is also a society with a deeply
patriarchal system which rejects
anything that threatens the male-female
order when we spoke to activists they
told us that empowerment begins with
ensuring proper gender equality where
the woman status is established in
society and in that way the status of
LGBT people can be affirmed as well
Barry met Prince Mahendra
he's the world's first openly gay Prince
Prince Ben vendre came out on The Oprah
Winfrey Show very internationally his
parents disowned him and accused him of
bringing great shame to the royal family
we sat down with Prince Mahendra and
talked to him about why he decided to
come out so very publicly he reaiiy felt
that there was a lot of need to break
this stigma and discrimination which is
existing in our society and that kind of
instigated me to come out openly and
talk about myself with we are gay we are
lesbian we are transgender bisexual or
whatever sexual minority we come from we
act all unite and and fight for our
rights
he rights cannot be won in the rooms but
in the hearts and the minds of the
people while getting my hair cut the
woman cutting my hair asked me do you
have a husband now this was a dreaded
question that I got asked a lot by
locals while travelling when I explained
to her that I was with a woman instead
of a man she was incredulous and she
asked me a lot of questions about my
parents reactions and whether I was sad
that I never be able to have children I
told her that there are no limitations
to my life and that Lisa and I do plan
to have a family someday
now this
woman was ready to write me off as yet
another crazy Westerner she couldn't
imagine that such a phenomenon could
happen in her own country that is until
I showed her the photos of the super
gays we interviewed in India
she recognized Prince Mahendra from
television and soon I had an audience of
other hairdressers interested in meeting
me
and in that ordinary afternoon I had the
chance to introduce an entire beauty
salon to the social changes that were
happening in their own country from
India we travelled to East Africa a
region known for intolerance towards
LGBT people in Kenya 89% of people who
come out to their families are disowned
homosexual acts are a crime and can lead
to incarceration in Kenya we met the
soft-spoken David Correia David had a
huge mission of whining to work for the
poor and improve his own government so
he decided to run for Senate he became
Kenya's first openly gay political
candidate David wanted to run his
campaign without denying the reality of
who he was but we were worried for his
safety because he started to receive
death threats at that point I was really
really scared because they were actually
asking for for me to be killed and yeah
there are some people are there who
would do it and they feel that they're
doing a religious application David
wasn't ashamed of who he was even in the
face of threats
he stayed authentic at the opposite end
of the spectrum is Argentina Argentina
is a country where 92% of the population
identifies as Catholic yet Argentina has
LGBT laws that are even more progressive
than here in the u.s. in 2010 Argentina
became the first country in Latin
America and the 10th in the world to
adopt marriage equality there he met
Maria Rasheed Maria was the driving
force behind that movement do kill
Dehlia los efectos matrimony val
italiano son solamente para la pareja
que se Casson son para montn de
personas que aunque no se casa nunca
Bona sir percy vidas por las compaas
de trabajo por la familia por los
vecinos
otra manera a party deste mensaje guol
da del estado Nacional me siento muy
Russo's Argentina porque Argentina I
assume Modelo do al da yo holla muy
pronto 10 gamos en todo el mundo lo
mismo derechos call me Mon hombres when
we made the visit to my ancestral lands
I wish I could have shown my parents
what we found there because here is who
we met a whole community of young
beautiful Chinese LGBT people sure they
had their struggles but they were
fighting it out in Shanghai I had the
chance to speak to a local lesbian group
and tell them our story in my broken
Mandarin Chinese in Taipei each time we
got onto the metro we saw yet another
lesbian couple holding hands and we
learn that Asia's largest LGBT Pride
event happens just blocks away from
where my grandparents live if only my
parents knew by the time we finished our
not so straight journey around the world
we had travelled fifty thousand miles
and logged 120 hours of video footage we
traveled to 15 countries and interviewed
50 super gays turns out it wasn't hard
to find them at all yes there are still
tragedies that happen in the bumpy road
to equality let's not forget a 75
countries still criminalize
homosexuality today but there are also
stories of hope and courage in every
corner of the world what we ultimately
took away from our journey is equality
is not a Western invention one of the
key factors in this equality movement is
momentum momentum is more and more
people embrace their full selves and use
whatever opportunities they have to
change their part of the world a
momentum as more and more countries find
models of equality and one another
when Nepal protected against LGBT
discrimination India pushed harder when
Argentina embraced marriage equality
arrghh y and Brazil followed when
Ireland said yes to equality the world
stopped to notice when the US Supreme
Court makes a statement to the world
that we can all be proud
as we reviewed our footage what we
realized is that we were watching a love
story it wasn't a love story that was
expected of me but it is one filled with
more freedom adventure and love that I
could have ever possibly imagined
one year after returning home from our
trip marriage equality came to
California and in the end we believe
love will win out by the power vested in
me by the state of California by God
Mike I don't pronounce you spouses for
life